When you're working with
libraries in Python,
you're going to make use
of the import keyword.
So let's take a look at
how this looks like.
You can import packages that
are in the standard library
without needing to do anything special.
So for example,
random is part of the standard library.
And this random module, if I wanted to see
what was in it, I could call dir on it.
Has a method here called randint.
If I wanted to know what it does,
I could pass that into help.
So returns a random integer in the range
of a and b including both end points.
So I can call random.rantint between 0 and
100, and
that will give me a random
number each time I run it.
You can also specify
that instead of importing
everything that it is
in this random module,
you can say from the random module import,
and
then the specific name of
the function that you want to use.
And then I can call randint this way
without any extra qualifications.
You'll get more comfortable with this
concept as you advance in your python
journey.
But know that,
if you are going to be using a lot of or
all of the definitions from a module,
go ahead and import that top level module.
If you just want to use one thing,
stick with the best practice of
only importing what you need.
You can also install libraries with pip.
And generally you want to run
pip this way python-m pip.
Remember the -m flag means from the next
argument as a standalone program.
And this makes sure that we're always
using the version of pip that is
associated with the version of
Python in our virtual environment.
Because unfortunately, you can also end up
with multiple versions of pip installed.
Sometimes you might have a pip three for
Python three.
So this is the guaranteed way of
getting the right package installed.
Go ahead and do a python-m pip install
requests in your virtual environment.
And we're going to use
that external library
in the last practice for this chapter.
Make sure that you
are in your terminal and
your virtual environment is activated and
do python -m pip install requests.
And you should see an install here,
I've already installed it.
So it says requirement already satisfied.
Now a little bit more about modules and
imports.
Python has this batteries
included philosophy.
There is a rich and versatile standard
library available without having to
download separate packages.
There's a lot of useful stuff
in here like working with
JSON we saw earlier working with times and
dates.
If you want to make your own modules,
just make a new folder and
put your code in there.
And that way you can import everything
that is in that module just like this.
In older versions of Python,
you had to have an empty dunderinit.py
file in folders for
Python to recognize them as modules.
In Python three,
that is no longer the case.
And when you have time, you can go
through here and look at best practices.
We're not going to talk
about tests right now, but
I will cover tests when
we talk about Django.
Know that you should write them.
They are a cornerstone of
solid Python programs.
And the unit testing library
is built in to Python.
You just have to import unit test and
then you have a lot of features available.
In the course website, you'll also
see that there is a cheat sheet for
all of the test case assertions that
you might commonly use when you
are unit testing your code.
Like assert equal, assert,
not equal assert true assert false.
You'll be using a combination
of these in your unit tests.